Overhaul "Learn Shiny" content to be Express focused (#68)
posit-dev/py-shiny-site: docs/ui-layouts.qmd

---
title: Layouts
---

## Page layouts

As we learned in the [quick start](quick-start.qmd), shiny apps have two main parts: a user interface and server function.
A user interface typically begins with a `ui.page_*()` function, which defines the overall page-level layout.
Here are some page functions that come pre-bundled with shiny:

| name | description | filling |
| ---- | ----------- | ------- |
| `page_sidebar()` | A page with a sidebar. | ✔ |
| `page_navbar()` | A multi-page application, with an optional sidebar. | ✔ |
| `page_fillable()` | A basic fillable page. | ✔ |
| `page_fluid()` | A "full width" page (with a small gutter on each side). | ✗ |
| `page_fixed()` | A "restricted width" page (great for "articles"). | ✗ |
| `page_bootstrap()` | A bare bones [Bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/5.3/getting-started/introduction/) page. | ✗ |

> The first three page options are designed to fill the page (by default), meaning that if components like plots, cards, widgets, etc. appear as direct children of the page, they grow/shrink to fill the page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first three page options are designed to fill the page (by default), meaning that if components like plots, cards, or widgets appear as direct children of the page, they will grow/shrink to fill the page.
```

```{shinylive-python}
#| standalone: true
#| components: [editor, viewer]
#| layout: vertical
#| viewerHeight: 400

from shiny import App, render, ui
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
import numpy as np

app_ui = ui.page_sidebar(
    ui.sidebar(
        ui.input_slider("n", "Sample size", 0, 1000, 250),
        ui.input_numeric("mean", "Mean", 0),
        ui.input_numeric("std_dev", "Standard deviation", 1),
        open="always",
    ),
    ui.output_plot("plot"),
    title = "Simulate a normal distribution",
)

def server(input, output, session):
    @output
    @render.plot(alt="A histogram")
    def plot():
        x = np.random.normal(input.mean(), input.std_dev(), input.n())

        fig, ax = plt.subplots()
        ax.hist(x, 30, density=True)
        return fig

app = App(app_ui, server)
```
:::

::: {.callout .callout-info}
<h3> Sidebar options </h3>

By default, the sidebar is hidden on mobile devices (and can be opened/closed via the caret icon).
Here, we've set `open="always"` so both the sidebar and main content are always visible, which works great for small examples, but may not be ideal for apps with lots of content.
:::

### `page_navbar()`

> A multi-page application, with an optional sidebar.

Reviewer: Do we want to say more about this?

Author: Ahh sorry, this was another file that should've been removed (we can lean on the layout gallery instead now).
